Devops Life Cycle:
Plan->Code->Build->Test->Release->Deploy->Operate->Monitor

Problems without these tools in place
Mask Deployment- More manual effort in deploying any software to bulk systems/devices.Manual make deployment creates human error
Migrattion from Test to PROD(Environment Differences)- Application works on test/Dev environment but not on PROD.
Applicaiton Failure:No way to review the change log and rollback to previous Stable version when deployed application fails to work. 

Infrastructure as Code(Iac): Automation of IT operations(build, deploy and manage) by provisioning of code, rather that manual process. Provisioning of Dev, Test and Prod environment by writing code in one centralized location

Difference in Shell and CM tools Script in Iac:
- In shell you need to write automation from scratch but in CM tool 80% things already available.
- In shell you need to define the workflows whereas in CM tool they are already available.
- In CM tools you have UI interface but not in shell script.


CMTools:
Ansible, Puppet, Chef and Saltstack

Comparision between these tools:
Scalability- All the tools are highly scalable.
Ease of Setup- Ansible is Easy and faster to setup then other tools as it is agentless. They are configured in Master(server) and Client(agent)machines.
Availability- All the tools are highly available as all have multiple instances.
Management- Puppet and Chef follows the pull configuration whereas the Ansible and Saltstack follows the Push configuraiton. Ansible and saltstack are easy to manage as they use YAML language.
Interoperability- All the tools clients supports windows machines but master/servers has to be on unix/Linux.
Confuguration Language- Ansible and Saltstack uses YAML (Python) so easy to learn ane administoring these tools and also 
setting up and running these tools is quicker. Puppet(Puppet DSL(Domain Specific Language)) and Chef(DSL Ruby) uses their own language so not very easy to learn and administrator oriented.
GitHub Activitty- All Support GitHub activity
Enterprise Cost- Puppet($12000), Saltstack($15000), Ansible($10000) and Chef($7200)
Popularity- Puppet and Chef are old players, puppet has wider adoption. Saltstack and Ansible are new players and ansible looks very promising with the growing trend.
Success Story- All the tools have their pros and cons.


Why master on linux/unix- More Secure, Faster than windows and Open source.


